Projects/felix-gogollok/whisky-statistics/project-description.md, before:

## Whisky statistics

Since my last attempt at updating the project ended in something that
still does not work, I will try it now with a statistic project related
to whisky. Note that I removed the “Inventarnummer”, “Einkaufspreis”,
“letzte Expertenschätzung”, “Stand der letzten Expertenschätzung”,
“letzter Auktionswert” and “Stand des letzten Auktionswertes” columns
from the data set. This dataset originates as part of the inventory
database from my family’s extensive spirits collection. The data set to
be used in this project is available in the project folder as
“Whisky.csv”.

The goal of this project is to visualize in a spider graph which region
(column “Region”) has which number of whiskies with a high rating
(column “Punkte”, more than 80). The spider graph should have the
regions on the x-axis and the number of whiskies with a high rating on
the y-axis. Every destillery (column “Destillerie”) should get a
different color graph (except red) The median rating should be
calculated for each region. and displayed as a overlay spider diagram in
red. It should have a title labeled “The quality of scotch whiskys in
relation to the region of destillation and the median quality of each
region” and the x-axis and y-axis should be labeled with the
corresponding column names. Add a legend to the graph. Save the spider
graph at the end as a .png file in the project folder.

## About the data sources

The data used in this project was manually entered into a relational
database system. It’s origin is private by nature.

Commit message:

Removed some sensitive information from the project description.

Projects/felix-gogollok/whisky-statistics/project-description.md, after:

## Whisky statistics

Since my last attempt at updating the project ended in something that
still does not work, I will try it now with a statistic project related
to whisky. The data set to be used in this project is available in the
project folder as “Whisky.csv”.

The goal of this project is to visualize in a spider graph which region
(column “Region:”) has which number of whiskies with a high rating
(column “Punkte:”, more than 80). The spider graph should have the
regions on the x-axis and the number of whiskies with a high rating on
the y-axis. Every destillery (column “Destillerie:”) should get a
different color graph (except red) The median rating should be
calculated for each region. and displayed as a overlay spider diagram in
red. It should have a title labeled “The quality of scotch whiskys in
relation to the region of destillation and the median quality of each
region” and the x-axis and y-axis should be labeled with the
corresponding column names. Add a legend to the graph. Save the spider
graph at the end as a .png file in the project folder.

## About the data sources

The data used in this project was manually entered into a electronic
data processing system. The data sources are (partly) stated in the
“Buch vom:” column.
