# Marketing analysis of Bigmart sales

## Project Description

Big Mart is Grocery Super Market Brand. Grocery stores house thousands
of products that you can find in many different locations and sizes.
When considering their marketing, grocery stores can analyze different
variables to see what products need to be promoted or offered discounts
on. The BigMart dataset provides 14204 observations and 12
variables.These variables include weight, fat content, visibility, item
type, location, and more. It also includes over 1,500 products across 10
different stores. The [dataset](data.csv) can be downloaded on kaggle
<https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/thedevastator/bigmart-product-sales-factors>

## Current Data

The Dataset has the following attributes:
<p>

-   `Item_Identifier` ID for every Item
    <p>
-   `Item_Weight` is the weight of the product in kilograms. *(Numeric)*
    <p>
-   `Item_Fat_Content` is the fat content of the product.
    *(Categorical)*
    <p>
-   `Item_Visibility` is the visibility of the product in store or
    online. *(Numeric)*
    <p>
-   `Item_Type` is the type of product, such as limited offers or no
    offer. *(Categorical)*
    <p>
-   `Item_MRP` is the maximum retail price of the product. *(Numeric)*
    <p>
-   `Outlet_Establishment_Year` is the year the outlet was established.
    *(Numeric)*
    <p>
-   `Outlet_Size` is the size of the outlet, either retail or
    supermarket. *(Categorical)*
    <p>
-   `Outlet_Location_Type` is the type of location of the outlet, such
    as urban or rural area. *(Categorical)*
    <p>
-   `Outlet_Type` is the type of outlet, such as sales departmental
    store or supermarket. *(Categorical)*
    <p>
-   `Item_Outlet_Sales` is the sales of the product in the outlet.
    *(Numeric)*
    <p>

## Goal

My aim is to evaluate the effects of the variables on purchasing
behavior.

First of all I need to **clean the data**. There are many missing values
that needed to be converted to NA values. A decision must also be made
on what to do with the N/A values in the corresponding categories. I
have decided to drop all observations with N/A if they become relevant.
To *prepare the data for the visualizations* we need to add a new
variable revenue. For the price, I would estimate that the real selling
price is about 70% of the maximum price. So the formular for revenue =
Item\_MRP*0.7*Item\_Outlet\_Sales

After the Data Cleaning I would like to answer the following questions
by **creating charts with ggplot**:

**1. Which products are sold the most?**

To answer this question I want to create a bar chart that shows the sum
of all sales by item category. In addition, I want to show the relative
share as a number above each bar. Also I would like to create a chart
total revenue by item category. In comparison to the example plot, I
would add slanted x-labels, no color code legend and the color the bars
according to average item visibility ?!

*Example to illustrate*
<p>

![](Example.png)

**2. Does this effect differ according to location and size?**

To figure this out, I would like to create the same plot from 1.
Separated by the attribute’s location and size. To really see the effect
of the attributes, it is important to divide the total sum of sales by
the number of stores. Using location type as an example, I would then
have a plot showing total\_sales/number\_of\_stores for location type
(tier 1, tier 2 & tier 3) split by item category. I would like to create
these plots to show the influence of location and size on sales. For
example, “Does a Tier 1 location increases sales?”. I also want to
create the same plots with total\_revenue/number\_of\_stores on the
y-axis. In comparison to the example plot, I would add slanted x-labels,
no color code legend and the color the bars according to average item
visibility.
<p>
*Example to illustrate*
<p>

![](Sales_by_Location.png)
