# Advanced-data-processing-with-R

------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Project Idea: Bye Bye Birdie

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Biodiversity decline is a real problem around the globe. While for
European audiences, the word normally conjures up images of rare orchids
or reptiles in the world’s rain forests, there is also biodiversity loss
that hits a lot closer to home with a species that is considered
omnipresent.

[According to research published in scientific journal Ecology and
Evolution](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/ece3.8282),
house sparrow populations in the European Union have almost halved
between 1982 and 2017. The researchers estimated that between 2014 and
2017, the EU sparrow population only stood at around [261
million](https://zenodo.org/record/5544548#.ZFkcpi9n6x_).

The sparrow population remained the largest among the more than 300
birds species analyzed in the study, but also suffered the most dramatic
relative decline. According to the makers of the study, species that
like the sparrow are using farmland as habitat were hit harder by
population declines. Overall, EU bird populations are estimated to have
declined by 17 to 19 percent since the early 1980s, the equivalent of
the loss of approximately 600 million birds.

Farmland became a more hostile
[environment](https://www.statista.com/topics/4739/environmental-pollution/#topicOverview)
to birds due to the [growing industrialization of agriculture and the
use of
chemicals](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/nov/16/house-sparrow-population-in-europe-drops-by-247m)
which shrank insect and subsequently bird populations.

While the overall loss of birds was a grave concern, some bird species
increased their populations, for example blackbirds, wrens, robins,
woodpidgeons, blue tits and raptors, which benefited from protection and
restoration projects. Yellow wagtails, starlings and skylarks, on the
other hand, were flagged as having become increasingly rare.

![](images/byebyebirdie.jpeg)

## Goal of the project

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The idea of this project is to recreate the “Bye Bye Birdie” plot below
as close as possible using the data from Burns et al. (2021) which is
linked above. I am particularly interested in which of the bird species
increased in population and which decreased in population.

![](images/population-changes.jpeg)

Best, Jasmin
