## Unhinged Introduction

<br> “There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics.”

\-*Mark Twain*

<br>

In our R class we’ve been tasked with investigating cars, nycflights,
Star Wars, and a whole host of somewhat relevant data sets that can be
modeled and analyzed to produce mildly meaningful statistical summaries.
All I can ask in the face of the overwhelming banality of the subject
matter is: Where is the humanity?

While it may be useful for us to engage in these exercises, to pretend
that we live in a world dictated by facts, means, and medians, it is not
the mode of the modern era to care about facts. More people read the
Daily Mail than the New York Times, for every Süddeutsche Zeitung
subscriber there are roughly five Bild consumers, and every Tuebingen
student in a R data science course probably has at least one insane
relative that gets their news from Facebook.

We live in an era where fake news and alternative facts are vastly more
popular than boring old baseline reality. So why should we produce
useful charts that will languish, unread in a dry academic journal or,
horror of horrors, a term paper to be graded by an overworked and
underpaid teacher’s assistant? Screw authenticity, the truth, and
statistical integrity! Embrace fallacy and let’s get our data out there
for the world to see!

Tyler Vigen is a luminary in the field of bullshit statistics. His
website, [Spurrious
Correlations](https://tylervigen.com/spurious-correlations), guides card
carrying crackpots, professional nutjobs, and those on the forefront of
tinfoil haute couture headgear development, to make claims that
reasonable people reject but the vast majority of humanity can’t wait to
eat up.

Vigen has combed databases far and wide to bring to light such
fascinating conspiracies as:

<br> **The insidious connection between spelling bees and venomous
spiders:**

![](Bees.png)

<br> **Nicolas Cage’s vendetta against anyone in proximity to a pool:**

![](Cage.png)

<br> **And how the Math Majors are planning to irradiate the USA:**

![](Math.png)

## Demented Goals

Now why should Vigen have all the fun and get all the credit? We need to
search for our own covert connections and dark plots hidden amongst the
numbers that underpin our modern society. Your mission, should you
choose to accept it, is to find your own Spurious Correlation. Maybe
it’s cheese consumption in Italy and the rate of cocaine exportation
from Columbia. Perhaps a consortium of automanufacturers in Europe match
their model releases with rainfall in Timbuktu. For those willing to
leave reason behind, the possibilities are endless.

Thus the project seems relatively simple, right? Get two data sources
from anywhere and find some way to relate them that you think your crazy
uncle/aunt on facebook might believe. You can display the data in any
way you want, Vigen’s format is great but if you can think of a way to
elevate your manufactured bullshit to true statistical art, go for it!

This project reveals its bastardly nature when you begin trying to
correlate completely unrelated data. How can you match patterns between
two totally different data sets? You’re going to need to think not in
terms of what the data represents, rather what scales to use, how to
mathematically match statistical curves within some visually acceptable
error bar, and how to analyze sections or the entirety of a dataset in
ways that give you information on numerical patterns.

Now, some might say this is good practice for searching the web for
usable data and collating it into one project. Others might posit that
anyone interested in data science might encounter situations where it is
beneficial to look at data from a purely abstract perspective. Hell,
there are probably those among us that think this exercise might be an
awesome practical warning to not believe every chart we find on the
internet. But I say NO! This exercise is designed to help any of us who
want to make it big in the world of politics, tabloids, social media or
any other truly pointless but quintessentially human endeavor. So go to
the dark side of YouTube, watch Fox News, and duct tape your tinfoil hat
firmly to your head because we are about to contribute our own shovelful
of manure to the compost heap that is the internet.

## Crazed Priorities

-   Find completely unrelated datasets

-   Identify statistical patterns in them

-   Create an algorithm that matches statistical trends in them (Think
    about the Geometry of a trend line)

-   Display the data in a way that makes it seem correlated

-   Profit??

## Sensational Samples

-   [USA Public Health Data](https://wonder.cdc.gov/)

-   [McDonald’s Annual
    Reports](https://corporate.mcdonalds.com/corpmcd/investors/financial-information.html)

-   [Public Toilet Map of
    Australia](https://data.gov.au/dataset/ds-dga-553b3049-2b8b-46a2-95e6-640d7986a8c1/details)

-   [California Vanity Licence Plate
    Requests](https://github.com/veltman/ca-license-plates)

-   [Lists of Obscene Words in Various
    Languages](https://github.com/LDNOOBW/List-of-Dirty-Naughty-Obscene-and-Otherwise-Bad-Words)

-   [And Many Many
    More](https://github.com/awesomedata/awesome-public-datasets)
