Tutorials/git-started.md, before:

# Git-ing started

In order to get RStudio working with git and GitHub, we need to do a couple of steps.

These have to be done only once and will be forgotten soon after. ;)

1.  Understand what git is: [Section 1. - 1.7](https://happygitwithr.com/big-picture.html)

2.  Create a [GitHub account](https://github.com/signup?user_email=&source=form-home-signup)

    -   you can use your university email address if you only want to create a temporary account
    -   if you want to keep your account, you might want to use your private email address
    -   maybe check these [advices for github user names](https://happygitwithr.com/github-acct.html)

3.  Post your GitHub user name within the respective course exercise submission

4.  Updating your R and RStudio version might be a good idea if you installed them *years ago*

5.  Install git (if not available): [Section 6.2 - 6.4](https://happygitwithr.com/install-git.html)

6.  **RESTART RStudio** and check if it finds git: [Section 13](https://happygitwithr.com/rstudio-see-git.html)

7.  Configure git using RStudio and the `usethis` package:

    -   `install.packages("usethis")` to get the package
    -   `library(usethis)`
    -   use `use_git_config(..)` to register your GitHub credentials: [Section 7](https://happygitwithr.com/hello-git.html)
    -   use `git_default_branch_configure()` to reset `main` branch name: [Section 7.1.2](https://happygitwithr.com/hello-git.html#configure-the-default-name-for-an-initial-branch)

8.  Generate a PAT to enable RStudio-GitHub communication via `usethis` package: [Section 9](https://happygitwithr.com/https-pat.html)

    -   `library(usethis)`
    -   use `create_github_token(description="R2 course")`
        -   set an **Expiration** *date after the end of the course* (or "No expiration")
        -   *keep the generated PAT website open for Copy-and-Paste !!!*
    -   use `credentials::set_github_pat()` (already installed) to store the PAT: [Section 9.4.1.1](https://happygitwithr.com/https-pat.html#credentials-package)
    
9.  Check if you can [access the project on GitHub](https://github.com/Dr-Eberle-Zentrum/Advanced-data-processing-with-R) (i.e. we registered you as a collaborator already)
    - **if not** you will have to *wait until we have added you...* you will get an email notification from GitHub when done and ready

10. Once you can access the repository online, you will need to get a local copy via RStudio: [Section 16.2.2](https://happygitwithr.com/existing-github-first.html#rstudio-ide-1)
    - the HTTPS URL is `https://github.com/Dr-Eberle-Zentrum/Advanced-data-processing-with-R.git`

11. Change and `push` your changes!
    - create a subfolder within the **Project** folder named as your **GitHub account user name**
    - create *within* your new folder a new file (best a Markdown file ending in .md) and say "Hi I am here" within the file
    - add the file to git control and push the file to GitHub
    - check online if you can see your file and all is good!
    - **ATTENTION:** if you are working on the repository *at the same time as one of your peers* your *push* might fail with a notification that you are missing changes that are on GitHub already. In that event, you first need to *pull* the changes and *afterwards push* should work fine.

Commit message:

no-branch workflow linked + final summary and outlook

Tutorials/git-started.md, after:

# Git-ing started

In order to get RStudio working with git and GitHub, we need to do a couple of steps.

These have to be done only once and will be forgotten soon after.
;)

1.  Understand what git is: [Section 1. - 1.7](https://happygitwithr.com/big-picture.html)

2.  Create a [GitHub account](https://github.com/signup?user_email=&source=form-home-signup)

    -   you can use your university email address if you only want to create a temporary account
    -   if you want to keep your account, you might want to use your private email address
    -   maybe check these [advices for github user names](https://happygitwithr.com/github-acct.html)

3.  Post your GitHub user name within the respective course exercise submission

4.  Updating your R and RStudio version might be a good idea if you installed them *years ago*

5.  Install git (if not available): [Section 6.2 - 6.4](https://happygitwithr.com/install-git.html)

6.  **RESTART RStudio** and check if it finds git: [Section 13](https://happygitwithr.com/rstudio-see-git.html)

7.  Configure git using RStudio and the `usethis` package:

    -   `install.packages("usethis")` to get the package
    -   `library(usethis)`
    -   use `use_git_config(..)` to register your GitHub credentials: [Section 7](https://happygitwithr.com/hello-git.html)
    -   use `git_default_branch_configure()` to reset `main` branch name: [Section 7.1.2](https://happygitwithr.com/hello-git.html#configure-the-default-name-for-an-initial-branch)

8.  Generate a PAT to enable RStudio-GitHub communication via `usethis` package: [Section 9](https://happygitwithr.com/https-pat.html)

    -   `library(usethis)`
    -   use `create_github_token(description="R2 course")`
        -   set an **Expiration** *date after the end of the course* (or "No expiration")
        -   *keep the generated PAT website open for Copy-and-Paste !!!*
    -   use `credentials::set_github_pat()` (already installed) to store the PAT: [Section 9.4.1.1](https://happygitwithr.com/https-pat.html#credentials-package)

9.  Check if you can [access the project on GitHub](https://github.com/Dr-Eberle-Zentrum/Advanced-data-processing-with-R) (i.e. we registered you as a collaborator already)

    -   **if not** you will have to *wait until we have added you...* you will get an email notification from GitHub when done and ready

10. Once you can access the repository online, you will need to get a local copy via RStudio: [Section 16.2.2](https://happygitwithr.com/existing-github-first.html#rstudio-ide-1)

    -   the HTTPS URL is `https://github.com/Dr-Eberle-Zentrum/Advanced-data-processing-with-R.git`

11. Get ready to work with it

    -   study the brief [Section 6.4 The no branch workflow](https://edav.info/github.html#the-no-branch-workflow) on your *own* git repositories

12. Let's try: Change something and `Push` your changes!

    -   create a subfolder within the **Project** folder named as your **GitHub account user name**
    -   create *within* your new folder a new file (best a Markdown file ending in .md) and say "Hi I am here" within the file
    -   add the file to git control and push the file to GitHub
    -   check online if you can see your file and all is good!
    -   **ATTENTION:** if you are working on the repository *at the same time as one of your peers* your *push* might fail with a notification that you are missing changes that are on GitHub already. In that event, you first need to *pull* the changes and *afterwards push* should work fine.


**Congratulations!** 
You have just made your first steps in a version-controlled project workflow using git!

The last three steps (check out a local copy from Github + working on it) are the standard workflow when you start your own project, using GitHub as your version-control cloud service.
When working collaboratively with others or when contributing to foreign projects, the workflow needs some extensions in terms of "branches" and "pull requests".
We will look into both later in the course and master them as well!
