Projects/charlotte/project-description.md, before:

---
title: "Projektbeschreibung Charlotte"
output: md_document
---

### Charlottes Project 🐌🐌🐌

🐌 **0: Dataset**

The Dataset looks at guest students in universities and other institutions for higher education by sex in NRW.

I got the dataset from the Internetpage GOVDATA, a platform for Data from Germany. The data provider is the Open.NRW portal.

🐌 **1: Datenbereinigung**

-   Load the dataset (this is the link to the dataset: <https://www.govdata.de/suche/daten/gasthorer-nach-hochschularten-hochschulen-und-geschlecht-land-wintersemester> )

-   Create new variable: Chose 3 Universities (chose 3 with least missing data) and create a variable "Uni 3" That shows the sum of the "Insgesamt" of the 3 universities per wintersemester

-   Important: We have a lot of missing Data. Sometimes all the information (for "männlich", "weiblich" and "Insgesamt") is missing, sometimes we have the information for "männlich" and "Insgesamt" but not for "weiblich" or vice verca. Think about how to treat the missing data.

-   Important: The Dataset is arranged in a way that is (in my opinion) not intuitive. Maybe try to arrange the data differently to make it easier to work with

🐌**Exercise 2: Datavisualisation**

**`First part: create the plot`**

Your visualisation should look something like this. Don´t forget to put a header and axis label that fit the data.

![](images/Mein%20Projekt%20Bild%201-01.png)

-   the x-axis should be the wintersemester, the y-axis the number of guest students ("Insgesamt")

-   The dots for the WS and number of guest students for the universities should be connected with thin lines.

-   At the end of the line, the name of the university should be placed in a box with a black border

-   All lines and points should have the same color, except the lines and points for the variable 'Total Universities,' which should have a unique color

**`Zweiter Teil: animate the plot :)`**

![](images/Mein%20Projekt%20Bild%202.png)

Attempt to animate the graph with `gganimate()`. Initially, only the data points for the winter semester 07/08 should be visible, followed by lines connecting to each subsequent winter semester, and the labels for each line should animate along with it.

Commit message:

changed my project based on the feedback of last week - clearer instructions for the data cleaning - deleted the box at the beginning

Projects/charlotte/project-description.md, after:

### Charlottes Project 🐌🐌🐌

🐌 **0: Dataset**

The dataset focuses on guest students at universities and other higher education institutions by gender in NRW.

ndefinedI obtained the dataset from the GOVDATA website, a platform for data from Germany. The data provider is the Open.NRW portal.

🐌 **1: Data Cleaning**

-   [Load the dataset]{.underline}\
    <https://www.govdata.de/suche/daten/gasthorer-nach-hochschularten-hochschulen-und-geschlecht-land-wintersemester> )\
    Make sure to load the data direclty from the internet rather than downloading it to your computer first.

-   [Set the character encoding explicitly]{.underline}\
    Ensure that special characters (e.g. `ä`) are displayed correctly by setting the appropriate character encoding.

-   [Clean the end of the table]{.underline}\
    Remove any unnecessary rows or artifacts at the end of the dataset.

-   [Handle missing data]{.underline}\
    Replace missing data with `NA`.\

    -   If information is missing for only one category, calculate the missing value. For example: `"insgesammt" - "männlich" = "weiblich`

-   [Extract hierarchy from leading spaces]{.underline}\
    Use the leading spaces before university names to identify their "hierachy" (Entries with fewer leading spaces represent higer level categories). \
    Add a new column that reflects this hierarchy.

-   [Remove leading spaces]{.underline}\
    Once the hierarchy i extracted, delete the leading spaces from university names.

-   [Name the columns]{.underline}\
    Add meaningful names to all columns in the dataset

-   Important: The Dataset is arranged in a way that is (in my opinion) not intuitive. Maybe try to arrange the data differently to make it easier to work with

🐌**2: Data Visualization**

**`First part: create the plot`**

Your visualisation should look something like this. Don´t forget to put a header and axis label that fit the data.

![](images/Mein%20Projekt%20Bild%201-01.png)

-   the x-axis should be the wintersemester, the y-axis the number of guest students ("Insgesamt")

-   The dots for the WS and number of guest students for the universities should be connected with thin lines.

-   At the end of the line, the name of the university should be placed in a box with a black border

-   All lines and points should have the same color, except the lines and points for the variable 'Total Universities,' which should have a unique color

**`Zweiter Teil: animate the plot :)`**

![](images/Mein%20Projekt%20Bild%202.png)

Attempt to animate the graph with `gganimate()`. Initially, only the data points for the winter semester 07/08 should be visible, followed by lines connecting to each subsequent winter semester, and the labels for each line should animate along with it.

Try out if the animation is visible via markdown. If not you have to create a HTML output.
